
# Form Input with Validation

This was a project I did that looks at user input and stores it in its own state. I learned a lot about prop drilling and the concept of "lifting state" in order to make it accessible to child components. The global state was handle at the App level which called a function that created an array of objects and then stored it in a prop that the InputForm could then use by using the information already set up in the form. The arguments being the name and age variables.

The User component then looks at this array of objects from the App component, generated by the form submission of the InputForm state variables, and maps them out accordingly. Most of the heavy lifting is done in the InputForm component.


I also added some error handling in case there is invalid input types, like negative numbers or empty values. I learned about the trim method and how it is definitely useful for form input checking and + which checks numbers in strings as actual numbers which is also pretty handy!

I also added a modal with conditional rendering that looks at the form submit handler function. It checks if the error state is truthy, which it is if there is an issue with input values. It will display with 2 'dynamic' messages that addresses the issue with a button that sets the error state back to null thus removing it from the UI.

I might add some styling to the modal in the future but I was more concerned with its functionality than anything.

I am beginning to understand why React is declarative, at least from my perspective, it doesn't matter if the data or values aren't there yet for child components to work with, you can seemingly control how they should expect the data none the less, how it is declared, and then simply add 'pointer functions' to the parent component managing the state and store them into props.

Definitely learned a lot, and at the very least when it comes to working with forms in the future, I have something to reference!
